Add experimental sessions docs (#10378)
withastro/docs: src/content/docs/en/reference/experimental-flags/sessions.mdx

---
title: Experimental sessions
sidebar:
  label: Sessions
i18nReady: true
---

import Since from '~/components/Since.astro';
import ReadMore from '~/components/ReadMore.astro';

<p>

**Type:** `SessionConfig`<br />
**Default:** `undefined`<br />

<Since v="5.1.0" />
</p>

Sessions are used to store user state between requests for [on-demand rendered pages](/en/guides/on-demand-rendering/).

This experimental feature allows you to store and access items such as login status, shopping cart contents, or other user-specific data:

```astro title="src/components/CartButton.astro" {3}
---
export const prerender = false; // Not needed in 'server' mode
const cart = await Astro.session.get('cart');
---

<a href="/checkout">🛒 {cart?.length ?? 0} items</a>
```

> Sessions rely on a [configurable session `driver`](#enabling-experimental-sessions) to store data on the `session` object. A [session cookie](#cookies) and stores an identifying session ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sessions rely on a [configurable session `driver`](#enabling-experimental-sessions) to store data on the `session` object. A [session cookie](#cookies) stores an identifying session ID.
```
Assuming the "and" should go too!

In this early release of `experimental.sessions`, Astro's official server adapters have not yet been updated to provide a default session driver based on the platform's default storage feature. Until these are built in, you will have to specify a `driver` yourself in the `experimental.sessions` configuration object in addition to [adding an adapter](/en/guides/on-demand-rendering/#add-an-adapter).

The following sections show the recommended drivers for each adapter. (These will be automatically configured for you in the stable release of this feature.) Alternatively, you can specify [any supported driver from unstorage](https://unstorage.unjs.io/drivers/). 

### Configuring sessions with the Node adapter

The Node adapter is compatible with the the [filesystem driver](https://unstorage.unjs.io/drivers/fs). Note that this cannot be used in serverless environments as they have no shared filesystem.

```js title="astro.config.mjs" ins={6}
	{
    adapter: node({ mode: 'standalone' }),
		experimental: {
      session: {
        // Required: the name of the unstorage driver
        driver: "fs",
      },
    },
	}
```

### Configuring a session driver for other adapters

> Choose the [unstorage `driver` name](https://github.com/unjs/unstorage/blob/main/src/index.ts#L6-L34) that corresponds to the storage feature provided by your hosting platform, such as the [Netlify Blobs driver (`netlify-blobs`)](https://unstorage.unjs.io/drivers/netlify), the [Cloudflare KV driver (`cloudflare-kv-binding`)](https://unstorage.unjs.io/drivers/cloudflare) or the [Deno KV driver (`deno-kv`)](https://unstorage.unjs.io/drivers/deno). You can also use a cross-platform driver such as [Upstash](https://unstorage.unjs.io/drivers/upstash) or [Redis](https://unstorage.unjs.io/drivers/redis).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choose the [unstorage `driver` name](https://github.com/unjs/unstorage/blob/main/src/_drivers.ts#L88-L136) that corresponds to the storage feature provided by your hosting platform, such as the [Netlify Blobs driver (`netlify-blobs`)](https://unstorage.unjs.io/drivers/netlify), the [Cloudflare KV driver (`cloudflare-kv-binding`)](https://unstorage.unjs.io/drivers/cloudflare) or the [Deno KV driver (`deno-kv`)](https://unstorage.unjs.io/drivers/deno). You can also use a cross-platform driver such as [Upstash](https://unstorage.unjs.io/drivers/upstash) or [Redis](https://unstorage.unjs.io/drivers/redis).
```

> Choose the [unstorage `driver` name](https://github.com/unjs/unstorage/blob/main/src/_drivers.ts#L88-L136) that corresponds to the storage feature provided by your hosting platform, such as the [Netlify Blobs driver (`netlify-blobs`)](https://unstorage.unjs.io/drivers/netlify), the [Cloudflare KV driver (`cloudflare-kv-binding`)](https://unstorage.unjs.io/drivers/cloudflare) or the [Deno KV driver (`deno-kv`)](https://unstorage.unjs.io/drivers/deno). You can also use a cross-platform driver such as [Upstash](https://unstorage.unjs.io/drivers/upstash) or [Redis](https://unstorage.unjs.io/drivers/redis).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choose the [unstorage `driver` name](https://driver-name.unstorage.pages.dev/drivers) that corresponds to the storage feature provided by your hosting platform, such as the [Netlify Blobs driver (`netlify-blobs`)](https://unstorage.unjs.io/drivers/netlify), the [Cloudflare KV driver (`cloudflare-kv-binding`)](https://unstorage.unjs.io/drivers/cloudflare) or the [Deno KV driver (`deno-kv`)](https://unstorage.unjs.io/drivers/deno). You can also use a cross-platform driver such as [Upstash](https://unstorage.unjs.io/drivers/upstash) or [Redis](https://unstorage.unjs.io/drivers/redis).
```

Author: That's the deploy preview :D
